So we will be discussing price elasticities.

Let's open code4.R
We will load data2.csv
Here we have the sales in units, in terms of
our price and quantities
As we have seen, we want to model the sales of a product in terms of a price
and a competitor price.
We have seen that if we just do that, the interpretation of each coefficient
would be a little weird: "if our own product price decreases by one dollar, then the
sales would increase certain amount of units"
When dealing with prices and quantities, we expect a nonlinear effect. Don't be
confused, even though we are modelling linear models we can incorporate such an effect
(by using a trick)
Why? Because a $1 change should have a high impact on your sales when the price
is low, and low impact when the price is high.
This is the key part. Economists call this
"price elasticities". They are defined as
the " percetanje change of the quantity
when the prices change by 1%"

To explain this we need to use some basic calculus, so you can ignore this explanation
in case you find it difficult.

I will write it here. This is the model we are using



And this is the interpretation we were previously
using. Now let's assume we have a different model



If we just get the derivative, using the chain rule


we would have this. Multiplying by price on 
both sides.


And this is the definition of elasticity. We can do the exact same thing for the
price_competitor variable.

There are two alternative models that are not very used in the industry nor academia:
the first one is when ONLY the independent variable is in logs, and the second
one when the dependent variable is in logs. Those are called "semi-elasticities" models.

Now, going back to our example, we need to transform our data

Once the data is transformed, we can redo our model

And the interpretation is the following:

"a 1% increase in our price, changes -0.37% our sales"


Two final comments, or one final comment
the model in logs can have 
coefficients very different from the model without logs




